High on the last video we learn how to read data from the database right on this Venia we're going to
be learning how to update the data using BHB is going to be really fun.
But first I want to start separating the code into functions so that we can use it with any other files.
And this is what BHP is all about.
So I think it's about time we start doing this.
All right so I want to create a separate file for that connection.
So that way every time I make a new function or a new element on my web or application I can just we
use this file every time.
I don't have to keep copying and pasting the same code over and over in all the pages.
So the first thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to do a Save ass on this log in underscore.
Read up here.
And for us I want open this right here so.
So I can see where I'm going.
So let's just make it Logan on the score of the enter.
All right.
Now that we have this file that we can work with.
Basically what we are going to be doing is code refactoring right.
Right click here.
I'm going to create a new file.
And this is where I'm going to put my database DB up BHP.
All right.
This is where we're going to be put in the database.
So let's take this off.
Logging on the score update.
Let's take it all from there and let's put it in the D-B right here.
First it's open a BHB tag right here.
Right.
There we go.
And let's go back to all of the I want to show you what happens when you you already know what happens
when you take the connection off.
It says undefined variable connection so we have a problem now where we don't have the connection here
because we just took it off.
Well the trick is that you need to use a function called include and this function will bring in.
And let me show you how that works.
We bring in our file from from the D-B that BHB.
So we going to we're going include includeonly dot BHB let's make sure we put a semi-colon there.
And that way we get back to file.
Now we are using this file DB for our connection for database.
All right.
That's pretty cool now right.
So now we don't have to have this cold right here is that it was a mess before.
Right.
So now these three now so what are we going to do here.
How are we going to update this stuff.
All right.
First of all we don't need this right here.
All right let's make this a little smaller like this.
We need actually a file that we can put things in there in
a form a little form where we can put a user name and password.
And we can click all day and all of the data similar to the one we have on the create.
If you look at it create one.
We have this so what we want is a form like this where we can put our user name we can put a password
and then we can have an ID field here and click submitting.
We'll update that.
So that's what we want to do.
So let's go ahead and take some of this cold from here and use that because why.
Why write something else when we have this cold here right.
So let's just take this off here.
Copy it and bring it down to the to that log in update.
And let's go ahead and do it right here.
Let's just take all this off.
Stick with that.
We're going to fix something else in there.
Take this off and put on a cord right here.
All right.
So this looks like this because my resolution if I make it smaller you can see that it looks neat.
It looks more need them well that is there.
Just make sure we have that.
You see that it looks neater but if I make it big so you can see that's when the problem comes.
But anyway I hope you are not lost there.
All right so now we have this forum here.
And if I save it we have something like this there.
Now we need an ID field here for that.
I'm going to use a Select.
So let's do that.
Let's use a Select that is first used a this foreign group thing that we've been using with this framework
style framework through strap.
All right.
Let's go ahead and make a Selectric here.
Right.
We're going to have a couple options in there.
There we go.
And this is what I do for now here.
So when we come back here we see that we have that there.
They just put one as a placeholder.
OK.
So we have that the one.
So what we want to do again.
Let me just right here of this so you get a better idea.
We are going to put a user name here whatever user name we want and whatever pass we want.
And we've got to go to the database click here and it's going to pick up an I.D. from the database.
I'm going to show you the idea that is going to pick up our co-host
now cause I'm sorry BHB my admin.
That's where I want to go right here.
All right.
I want to show you this little application is going to be doing.
If you don't already know.
Let's go to users and.
All right.
So you see this idea right here.
This is the idea that we are going to be picking up on the field right here.
We're going to read the database and put that I did dynamic lead here so that we when we click here
we're going to have a list of IDS here.
And when we choose an I.D. Why let's say we choose the number one and we'll put whatever username and
whatever possible when we click update these data is going to change right here the user name is going
to change and the past is going to change for this specific I.D. in this case is going to be ID number
one.
So if I could I don't know Jose here or something and whatever password in that click Update.
This first idea is going to change.
Right.
Because that's the idea that I'm picking up over there.
Now the I.D. the user name is going to change referring to ID number one and the password.
So that's what we are doing here.
Right.
So let's finish refactoring this real quick.
All right so the next thing that we've got to do is we've got to bring that information from the database.
So I'm just going to cut the video here because I think is enough let's just do one more thing before
I cut the video.
And we're going to do it in the next video.
We're going to do the query to the database.
Let's go to the divi first.
And instead of saying we are connected that annoying text there all the time let's just say if not connection
then we get an error.
Right.
So you just take all this off here.
So if not connection then we get all this going here.
All right.
So for example if I make a mistake here Ira I make this mistake here and I put this here and it's not
connected then we get an error right here.
You see that
and that you get an error.
Give us an error in the other file.
So let's go down to our logging off day.
And you see we have a narrow here.
OK.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
All right so let's just call it a hand safe.
All right.
So now we go so we don't get that we are connected all the time there.
Right.
So anyway on the next video here we are going to be updating we're going to be pulling information from
the database dynamically.
We're going to put it up pulling the ID from the database from specific fields.
OK.
So anyway thank you so much and I see you in the next lecture.